And we're in the office of Bill Yunkin here in
Bryan. Now we're going to stop and hope that the
machine is working.
A while ago, didn't get the date, March 24, in the
office of Bill Yunkin. And we're going to chat
about what it was like to be a student at A&M back a
few years. Why did you attend A&M? Well, my basic
impetus for attending A&M came from, as I guess it
does for most folks, from influences in your life,
from people in your home town area. None of my
family had ever gone to college. My father, World
War II, at that age, would be in college and came
back. I was, I guess, what you call the first of the
baby boomers. My dad got out of the service in 1946,
and nine months later, in January 1947, there I am.
So
they didn't have that educational influence on
me, although they would have liked to have gone to
college. It really came about while I was growing
up in the, a school system there in Gilmer where I
was born.
We had a lot of
people who were community leaders in the town that
were A&M graduates. Gilmer is an Aggie town. And
the reason it's an Aggie town kind of goes back to
one particular person.
Everybody talks about 12th Man Superior, E. King
Gill coming out of the stands, et cetera, et
cetera. Well, on the field that day was a young man
who was playing center and middle linebacker for
the Aggies. His name was Henry McCullough. What's
Henry McCullough? M-C-C-U-L-L-O-U-G-H. And Mr.
Henry, as he was known to generations of kids
growing up in Gilmer, after he graduated from A&M,
came home to college school and coached Bob. And he
has gone through about three generations now that
are direct influences of Mr. Henry's recruitment
process. When I was in high school, he'd already
retired. He'd been principal, superintendent,
etc. He was just teaching chemistry and
analytical geometry and some of the other math
courses. I had him for that.
What he would do is he would talk about his days
staying home and playing for DX Bible and all those
memories and things.
And it got you interested in the school. And he was a
person of tremendous respect in our community.
The leading citizens of the community, other than
their parents, because one person they truly
respected, admired, and revered would be Mr.
Henry. And so when Mr. Henry ever came up to you and
put his arm around you and said, Bill, you ever
thought about going to A&M? You knew you'd kind of
pass muster in his eyes for the quality of person
that he thought should be going to his university.
And there were other people there, too, in the
community that were former students. that had an
influence. And one of the other aspects too is I did
get an opportunity to come down here early on in my
life, like my early teenage years, because I was
involved in 4-H and FFA. I was a farm boy. I was from a
farming family. And I lived in Gilmore. I lived 10
miles from Gilmore. That's what actually it was.
And because of that interest, and help with my
county agent, Mr. John Henry, who is retired and
lives here in Collin Stochendam. Mr. Grover
Bishop, who's my ag teacher, is deceased now. But
those men bringing me down here for judging
contests and leadership camp and things of this
nature. I got to see the campus and stuff like that.
And through that interest, It led to me obtaining a
scholarship to attend Texas A&M and to major in
agriculture. How much was that scholarship? It
was the grand total of $1,000, and it paid like $125
a semester, which was starting off about a third of
what it cost me to go to school each semester. So
with that scholarship and what I saved from my
working in animal projects and things of this
nature, I was able to go all the way through UNM
without ever having to borrow any money until my
last semester, my second year. Describe how you
came and what you brought when you came to enroll
the first time. How did you get here and what did you
bring and who brought you? Well, after I won my
scholarship, I had to come and go through the
summer pre-enrollment process. And at that
particular point in time, there was so much going
on at home on the farm and stuff that the family just
could not come with me. And so I had to come on my own.
And they took me to Tyler, and I caught the
Greyhound bus at Tyler. And I rode that bus darn
near all day long until it finally dropped me off at
the East Gate of the campus.
This would be September or August? No, this would
be like in July. Of what year? Of 1965. This was the
pre-enrollment deal where you'd come down and
sign up for whatever courses you're going to take
and all that good stuff. The same thing kids do now,
but I don't think it's changed that much. But
anyway, I came down for that. It was interesting.
Riding that bus, you kind of become familiar with
those who were on that bus with you between the
stops. I eventually found that there were two
other kids. One was a guy named George Strong who
was coming in from A little town up above with
Amarillo.
It's the last little town, basically, if you get to
before you get to New Mexico. Dumas. Dumas. From
Dumas and a guy named Skip. Gosh, Skip's name. From
Dallas. And we stopped in Bremont, Texas. It was
one of the stops. And there was... And this
reminded me of the... Little paintings you see
from Saturday Evening Post covers, you know. Here
was this little farming family in their little
pickup truck with all their kids and mom and dad are
there and here's his son waiting and the bus pulls
up and he hugs his mom and shakes his dad's hand and
he gets on and all he had was, he didn't have a
suitcase, I had a little bag. He had a brown paper
sack that he had his stuff in and... He was going to
Texas A&M because he graduated from Bremont High
School's salutatorians. So he had a scholarship
to go to a state-supported institution. So he was
coming down to become a mechanical engineer. I
don't think he ever had trigonometry, physics,
calculus, or any of those things that you would
need. But all of us, the four of us, got off that bus.
And I remember right there as we were going down to
the systems building, we walked. from there over
to the other side of the campus where they put us in
the dorms. And I remember the systems building
being so imposing at the end of that street. And we
thought, golly, boys, we're here. This is the big
town. And three of us were basically country boys.
One was city boy. But all of us were basically the
same background from working families. And we all
had received a scholarship of some form or fashion
to attend it. And we all ended up being on the
work-study program, which was provided by the
university to help kids who needed to have a little
financial assistance. And I know that Deward
and Skip, I don't know what they ended up doing, but
John Turlock, the boy from Bremont and I, in the
wedding tables of Duncan Knight on our freshman
year. And all four graduated. John got his
mechanical engineering degree and was a
successful engineer. I kind of lost touch with
Dewitt and Skip, but everybody graduating I think
went on to other things. But that was my first
experience and that's what I brought with me was
that. And I basically just, if someone back in
those days they thought of the typical, I guess I
was, small town country boy kind of environment. a
lot of what you found on campus. Describe the
campus physically. What buildings were where?
What did the campus seem like then? Oh, it seemed
huge to me. But it really wasn't. There were about
8,500 students that were enrolled in 1965. It was
the first year that the Corps was non-compulsory.
It was also the first year that The university was
open to admission to women.
But the university itself had not changed very,
very much at all. We did have the MSC. There was not
the Rudder Tower or any of that other stuff. It was
Guy Hall. The building was there. And we didn't
have, all we had was the old library. We didn't have
the new one. Didn't have so many of the buildings
that are there on campus that people are so
familiar with. There are a lot more open spaces on
campus than there are now. But it still was to my
view a huge place and I was apprehensive to say the
least. How describe life as a fish when you were a
freshman? You know, when I came in, I
didn't know much about all this stuff. I had a
scholarship, and I was going to A&M. And I knew
there was this thing called a COR. All I knew about
it was spelled funny. And I thought it should be
C-O-R-E instead of C-O-R-P. I thought that was
CORP, not COR. That's how ignorant I was. And when
we're going through this registration deal, had
you in these lines, and you don't know why you're in
the line, but you get to the front of the line. And
the guy asked me, Army or Air Force? And I remember
being so intimidated and everything else, but I
did have enough sense at least to ask one question.
I said, well, what's the difference? He said,
well, to graduate in the Air Force, it's a
five-year commitment. If it's the Army, it's a
two-year commitment. I said, put me in the Army. So
that's how I ended up in the Army ROTC part of it.
They asked me about, which I had a preference about
outfit, and I didn't really know what they were
talking about there. And I said, what difference
does that make? Well, there's some dorms over on
this side, they're air conditioned. Others over
here on the other side. And I said, what's the
difference in cost? And they said, well, air
conditioned dorms will bring the cost of this and
run air conditioned to this. I said, well, put me in
the un-air conditioned ones. And so that's how I
ended up in the outfit that I was in, in the Duncan
area. At that point in time, the Corps was in both
the Duncan area and Sevesa. And I lived in dorm one
on the fourth stoop. So then I got to get to know and
meet every upperclassmen there was on all four
floors. What I didn't realize then was being a
waiter in the mess hall was like being in another
outfit and having to get to meet and know all those
pertinent things about the upperclassmen
waiters. as well as all the upperclassmen on the
tables that I served. So it was a real introduction
to Corps life very quickly for me. I do know that
when we came down, I went to fish camp. And they came
down to, folks did, to drop me off. Like I said, I was
18 years old, first time I'd been away from
Northeast Texas for very much my whole lifetime.
And I remember going in the dorm, and this is after
fish camp. They brought me my stuff and
everything. I go in there, and there's just two
upperclassmen. One was introduced as my first
sergeant, and there was another junior that was
with him. They visited my folks, and they told my
folks that they'd had some of the same courses that
I had, and they could help me with my studies. And I
remember remarking that it was nice that I made a
friend the first day. campus, and I thought, yeah,
it is. They leave, and I have a little lump in my
throat, and I drive off into the quad there, going
back home. I know I'm on my own, all alone. I go back
in that dorm, and I see these two upper classmen. I
said, hey, Terry, Rick. I said, Terry, Rick, hey,
Maggie, we don't know you. Get out of here and whip
out. I had no idea what they were talking about, but
I knew that they were not as friendly as they were
before. And that just went straight downhill for
me. And I know that I finally got in my room, and I
said I was going to stay there for a while. And I do
recall later on that day that there was another kid
came with his grandmother. And pretty much the
same thing happened as soon as grandmother left.
The treatment started for him, too. And I remember
him running out of the dorm, hollering,
grandmother, wait. Grandmother, wait. That was
the last we saw of him. So there were 56 freshmen in
my outfit. that we started with and there were 13 of
us that graduated. What the Corps didn't get,
grades did. We did not have the, I don't think we had
the restrictions on admissions that we do now. And
so part of the weeding out process took place in
school. And I do recall that standing on the wall
that first week, not wanting any sort of shaved
head people sitting next to me very well at all. And
the COC looked to your left and looked to your right
at the end of the semester, those guys are not going
to be here. And I thought, well, that was me too. And
sure enough, out of 56, we were down to about 20 some
odd after the first semester, 30 some odd, 20 some
odd after the second semester. And 13, like I said,
he graduated. But the thing that I did learn
was I learned so much about myself and my ability to
deal with persons and situations. And I learned to
assess my fellow man on a different basis than I
ever had before. One thing that it certainly did
was it made you all equal. We're taught we're equal
in the eyes of the Lord, but
in society, you're not. You're judged by lots of
other factors. And there, I was taught you're
judged on two things, and that is your ability and
the content of your character. And that taught me a
lot about myself and my felony. And I've tried to,
I've used those things that I was taught there.
more than just about anything else I ever had in my
life. Describe, particularly during your
freshman year, but any other years, events that an
outsider might have called hazing. What were some
of the traditions, routines? Well, most
everything that outsiders would call hazing,
most everything we did would be called hazing. I
know that there were some physical things that
went on, That certainly get people voted out now.
Would have been too, but it wasn't pervasive.
There was some swatting on the backside from time
to time. Who did that? Upper classmen.
But I've never had anybody do anything like that to
me. But they did it because they wanted to. abused
me, hurt me, or anything else. They did it. It was
basically one of these little rituals, I guess
you'd say, of passage, so to speak. When they did
those kind of things, it meant that you had passed
and mustered, you were accepted, you were
approved, you were liked, you were respected type
of thing. And I was never known with meanness or
anything else. If it had, I wouldn't have stood for
it. But I still didn't think it was appropriate.
And I will just tell you that that all of those
things happened to me. And I never did those things
when I was on the president. I never beat anybody
with a broom or an axe hammer or any of that stuff. I
just, I might have physically grabbed somebody's
eyes, I say, you know, make them do a lot of
exercises and stuff like that. What were those,
just tell them about those. Oh, well, you, one
thing I will say is you had to be physically fit to
survive part of this too. If you were If you were a
flabby fat boy, you were in trouble. Of course, I
came in here being a foreign boy. I'd been in
athletics in high school and all those kind of
things. That was OK for me. It was no problem at all.
Boys that came in that were not in good shape did
suffer as a result of that. Oh, it was physically
demanding. You had to do push-ups, and you had to do
other things. type of things that were strenuous
exercises, stuff that you would see on a football
field, but would all be a short duration, would
last a little longer sometimes. I know that it was
one of those things too that you got punished as a
class quite often. If some of your classmates
weren't doing as they should, you would end up all
having to go through certain physical activities
And it eventually got to the point where you, if
these people persisted in that, and it was
apparent that they just didn't care about their
fellow fish, that we had a couple meetings with
some of those guys. And I do recall one guy that, he
was from Chicago and was kind of rude and
obnoxious.
And we got down to the point where we went to him and
said, we're going to pack your bags and we're going
to send you back home because you're not having it.
You're hurting. And I do recall that person, I
think for the first time, realizing his life. But
his actions did affect other folks, and he had a
responsibility to others. And he actually said,
please, guys, let me just stay. I'll change. And
he's the one of the 13 that graduated. Hey, good,
good. So. Fish Old Lady, was that an important
person in your life? It was a very important
person, but it didn't help in my case. I know that my
Fish Old Lady I found was a fish camper friend of
mine that I met in a state 4-H leadership
conference before and maybe some other function
out of high school. I thought he was going to be my
roommate. I saw this. It was just wonderful. I know
this person. His father had attended Texas A&M. He
knew all these things. He knew how to whip out and
all. And I didn't know what he was talking about. I
had no clue. I was totally clueless. And I thought,
boy, it's great that I found someone that I know
that has his background. He's going to be really
helpful. We get here, and he just totally spazzes
out. He is frightened to death. He will not go out. I
have to go out in the hall first because he can't
remember the names, and I have to speak to
everybody he had followed what I said. He would
never leave his room. I mean, it was horrible. He
would get up at like 4 in the morning and take his
books and hide them in bushes around buildings off
the quad so he wouldn't have to come back in the
morning to chat. And I had to clean up the room by
myself and all that kind of stuff. He could not wait
until the first semester was over with until he
could leave. And he got a point. I was thinking,
please, I'd be glad if you came. And he did leave. He
went to the University of Texas. And someone told
me not too long ago that he operates a bicycle
repair shop there on the strip. He's got hair down
to his waist. And he's the perpetual hippie over
there, a 50-some-odd-year-old hippie now. But
that's where he ended up. I ended up then, second
semester. As a matter of fact, they would not let
you After the first two weeks, you didn't get out of
the Corps by then. They would not let you out until
the end of the first semester. And so, as soon as
that was over, he was gone. Then I had a, I ran with
another guy. He was a good guy. He was from North
Texas at Iowa Park, north of Wichita Falls. And he
was an ag engineering major. He ended up with his
Ph.D. here at A&M. and good guy and he was my
roommate for that second semester my fish year and
second semester my first semester my sophomore
year and he ended getting married and i had another
roommate in the outfit for the second semester
then i went on staff my junior senior year and had
different roommates there too but after that
first semester i had wonderful roommates i mean
guys i truly cherish uh You described chow hall
routine. Since you were a waiter, you didn't eat
with your outfit. Tell me about the life of a
waiter. I did the second semester. Because, Dr.
Moreau, what I realized was I was missing out with
some of those opportunities for my fish buddies in
my outfit because I missed the formations and
stuff because I had to go down. Now, of course, I was
going through the stuff in the mess hall that they
were going through there, they didn't know that
and I wasn't getting to know those guys like I'd
like to and so I was able to give me another job on
campus that allowed me a little more flexibility
and I could work more hours in every time I had a
couple hour break I could go to work you know and so I
was able to earn more than waiting tables in the
mess hall so that was the first thing Second
semester, I did a little. Describe mess hall. Oh,
it was. Routines, traditions, games. Oh,
basically,
the mess hall was not a place where you got to
languish and eat at your heart's content. It was an
area of constant harassment and consternation to
all the freshmen. I know I said at the table there
were three freshmen. And they had two seniors, a
junior, two sophomores, and three freshmen. Two
of us ran hot corner, which is where they deliver
the food, the corner end of the table. And we passed
everything down. And then one guy was giving meal
service to the senior. And then I would give meal
service to the junior who was next to me, who ended
up being president of his class and the whole bit.
And he was on the association board and
everything. But anyway. It was, it was, you could
never eat small bites in front of your chair. So you
never got to eat very much. But we got around those
circumstances, situations. And I never recall
that one of the sophomores on the table was this guy
from, the way I'll text his name is Ernesto J. Pena
III. Blonde hair and blue eyes. And he would, his
favorite thing was making me which were the
peppers. If you smiled, he'd do something to make
you smile. He'd say, oh, Fish, I can't eat some
buzzberries and stuff. I'd eat those
buzzberries, but it didn't bother me too much. But
at our table, we had the three freshmen. We had some
real line-up for class. They assigned us a certain
task. One of the freshmen, his father was
commander of the Special Forces in Vietnam at the
time. And so he had to give a report on the war and
things of this nature. The other guy, he had to give
a report on other national affairs and things of
this nature. And mine was unusual rapes, deaths,
and murders. And so we'd get through at the mill,
and they'd say, OK, it's report time. And other
upperclassmen would move their chairs around,
and we'd go through the reports. And they'd say,
ah, Youngkin, it's your turn. And I'd go through.
some 80-some-odd-year-old grandmother in Italy
that died after she tried to dive off of a patio to
get down to another patio and catch it so she could
get in the children who were locked in their
apartment or whatever. And some bizarre things.
You know, they say, oh, you're lying, you're
lying. Oh, no, sir. And I pulled out the article
that I'd gone over the library. You found these
things in the San Antonio Light and the San Antonio
News Express for some reason. One of these really
warped stories. So, but that happened on a nightly
basis. And as soon as the upperclassmen would
leave, one of my good friends would always say, hey
guys, junior privileges. And we'd start eating
like that. And the upperclassmen would pretty
much go at that point. And so another
upperclassman came up and said, we've got junior
privileges. So we'd eat. What were the nicknames
for the food items? Oh, you had all of them. You
couldn't call anything by its regular name. And I
still recall every one of those things. salt,
pepper, and sand in. All meat, no matter what it
was, was bull neck.
Bread was deal. You know, if you deal out the loaves
of bread like you would cards.
Water was sky.
Butter was grease.
It was everything. Tea? Tea was, I don't know, what
the heck was tea? Dessert?
Dessert was cush. Dang, what was it? But anyway,
beans was artillery. It was all kinds of things for
all the foods. I had to dine for it. And a lot of the
things that went on at the Mesa were also kind of
those memories that you keep. They'd make you do
things to the other upperclassmen, like set their
bibs on fire. When you saw people at a table and they
were up there eating, all of a sudden you just kind
of see them pooch back in their seats, meant there
was some freshman crawling under the table to get
to the silver classmate at the end of the table, and
they would light his paper napkin he had in his lap,
and all of a sudden he'd flame, he'd jump up and
start fanning and beating himself. But the worst
thing that happened to me, and of course I did to
folks when I was a freshman, was they'd tell you
that as a freshman to grease somebody so you'd have
these big pats of butter And they'd have you take
these pads and put them in your hand until they got
real soft. Then you'd go up behind the
upperclassmen that you're supposed to grease,
and you'd go and slap this over his ears, which put
the butter into his ear. And the only way you'd get
out is you'd take a nap, and you'd just screw it
around in your ear, and you'd finally got out
enough where you could go get water in there to
shower it out. But it was terrible. It was funny,
too. Let's see. Your outfit? I was in Company B2.
Booze and D, which has recently been disbanded.
What was the nickname? Booze and D. Some of the kids
came about a year ago or not a year ago, about three
or four years ago, and said, Mr. Jenkins, you know,
they want us to change our outfit sign. They want to
take the stars and bars off our sign. Apparently,
the Confederate stars and bars were on the outfit
sign. I never realized that. And I told them, I
said, well, I wouldn't worry about that. I'd worry
about them wanting to change your name. They said,
why is that? I said, it's my mom. I hated that name. I
said, what are y'all just sitting around and
drinking all the time? I said, no, Mom, we don't.
But anyway, she hated that name.